feat: add ArgoCD monitoring documentation (#1420)
SigNoz/signoz.io: data/docs/cicd/argocd/argocd-metrics.mdx

---
title: Monitor ArgoCD 
description: Learn how to configure ArgoCD metrics monitoring and visualization with SigNoz
id: argocd-metrics
---

## Overview

> This guide will help you monitor your ArgoCD deployment using SigNoz. You'll learn how to configure metrics collection from ArgoCD, forward these metrics to SigNoz, and visualize them using a pre-built dashboard. By the end of this guide, you'll have comprehensive visibility into your ArgoCD deployment's health and performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> [ArgoCD](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) is a declarative, GitOps continuous delivery tool for Kubernetes that exposes metrics at several endpoints. Please read more about how to expose the metrics [here](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/operator-manual/metrics/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[ArgoCD](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) is a declarative, GitOps continuous delivery tool for Kubernetes that exposes metrics at several endpoints. This document will help you monitor your ArgoCD [metrics](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/operator-manual/metrics/) using SigNoz.
```

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have:

1. A running ArgoCD installation on your Kubernetes cluster
2. Access to your SigNoz Cloud account or a self-hosted SigNoz instance
3. OpenTelemetry Collector deployed in your environment

> 4. Your SigNoz ingestion key (for SigNoz Cloud users)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure you have:

- A running ArgoCD installation on your Kubernetes cluster
```

## Setup

> ### 1. Configure the OpenTelemetry Collector

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 1. Configure OpenTelemetry Collector
```

> To collect ArgoCD metrics and send them to SigNoz, you need to configure the OpenTelemetry Collector with a Prometheus receiver. Follow [this](https://signoz.io/docs/tutorial/opentelemetry-binary-usage-in-virtual-machine/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To collect ArgoCD metrics and send them to SigNoz, you need to configure the OpenTelemetry Collector with a Prometheus receiver. Follow this [document](https://signoz.io/docs/tutorial/opentelemetry-binary-usage-in-virtual-machine/) to setup your OTel collector.
```

#### Add Prometheus Receiver

> Add the following configuration to the `receivers` section of your OpenTelemetry Collector configuration file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure that the `prometheus` receiver is added to the collector`config.yaml` file. Make sure to set the targets as shown in the [config] code block (https://github.com/SigNoz/dashboards/blob/main/argocd/readme.md#configure-opentelemetry-collector) below.
```

```yaml
prometheus:
  config:
    global:
      scrape_interval: 60s
    scrape_configs:

>       - job_name: argocd-metrics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - job_name: argocd-metrics # A logical label used to group the set of targets being scraped; helps in querying and identifying metrics from this specific service (ArgoCD in this case)
```

        metrics_path: /metrics
        scheme: http
        static_configs:
          - targets:
            - localhost:8082  # Application metrics
            - localhost:8083  # API Server metrics
            - localhost:8084  # Repository Server metrics
```

> Follow this [readme](https://github.com/SigNoz/dashboards/blob/main/argocd/readme.md) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Checkout this [link](https://github.com/SigNoz/dashboards/blob/main/argocd/readme.md#configure-opentelemetry-collector) to see the complete configuration file.
```

<Admonition type="info">
 Replace `localhost` with appropriate hostnames or service names if your ArgoCD is running in a different namespace or cluster.
</Admonition>

> ### 2. Import the ArgoCD Dashboard in SigNoz

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 2. Import ArgoCD Dashboard 
```

Once your ArgoCD metrics are flowing into SigNoz, you can utilize the pre-built ArgoCD dashboard to monitor your deployment.

1. Download the ArgoCD dashboard JSON from [SigNoz Dashboards Repository](https://github.com/SigNoz/dashboards/blob/main/argocd/argocd.json)

2. Import the dashboard in SigNoz:
   - Navigate to Dashboards in your SigNoz UI
   - Click on "Import Dashboard" in the top-right corner
   - Upload the downloaded JSON file
   - Click "Import"

> For more information on importing and customizing dashboards, refer to the [SigNoz Dashboard Documentation](https://signoz.io/docs/dashboards/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on managing dashboards, refer this [document](https://signoz.io/docs/userguide/manage-dashboards/).
```

## Dashboard Features

> The ArgoCD Dashboard in SigNoz provides comprehensive visibility into your ArgoCD deployment with the following features:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ArgoCD Dashboard provides comprehensive visibility into your ArgoCD deployment.
```

### Dashboard Variables

The dashboard includes variables that you can use to filter your data:

- `{{namespace}}`: Namespace of the application
- `{{health.status}}`: Health status of the application
- `{{repo}}`: Name of the repository

<figure data-zoomable align="left">
    <img
        src="/img/docs/cicd/argocd/argocd-overview.webp"
        alt="ArgoCD Dashboard Overview"
    />
    <figcaption>
        <i>ArgoCD Dashboard Overview</i>
    </figcaption>
</figure>

> ## Conclusion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Dashboard Metrics 
```

> By following this guide, you have successfully configured ArgoCD metrics collection and visualization in SigNoz. You now have comprehensive visibility into your ArgoCD deployment, including:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The dashboard displays key metrics to give you a complete view of your deployment status. It has the following sections:
```

1. **Overall Status** - Monitor the number of applications and repository server status
2. **Application Health** - Track healthy, processing, suspended, and degraded applications
3. **Synchronization Status** - Monitor synced and out-of-sync applications
4. **Controller Performance** - Track sync activity, reconciliation metrics, and Kubernetes API activity
5. **Cluster and Repository Statistics** - Monitor cluster cache age, resource objects, and Git operations

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get a details about metrics in each section, follow this [link](https://github.com/SigNoz/dashboards/blob/main/argocd/readme.md#sections).
```
